with no parts markup and only a 75
build fee redux gaming pcs are the
obvious choice for gamers who demand the
best without paying extra with as little
as a few clicks you'll get a pc
optimized for you and the games you play
at a price that fits your budget and all
redux pcs are backed by two year
warranty
to see all that redux has to offer and
to start configuring your next pc head
to the link in the description below
alright so obviously i am late to this
video if you haven't
watch i am still recovering from covid
and i wasn't going to come back
to work and go right into uh the amount
of testing that it takes to
you know bring you guys a graphics card
review on day one in fact i'm still
taking it slow and i'm gonna give you
more of an opinion piece about the 3060
because by the time
this video has come out you guys will
have probably already seen 5
10 15 who knows how many videos about
everyone regurgitating the same specs
and the same marketing spiel that nvidia
wants you to repeat
so i'm going to give you an opinion
piece about this card instead which
admittedly might be a little bit more
valuable than talking about the specs
so first things first the rtx 3060 not
to be confused with the 3060 ti
has the most ram available out of any 30
series card
short of the 90. so there's already a
weird thing happening there
um as everyone already knows that is
nothing more
than a bunch of marketing circle jerk so
everyone can start competing over the
low end cards and who has the most ram
because we all know amd comes out with
16 gigabytes on pretty much
all of their cards again a big marketing
circle jerk on amd's side
because none of that ram matters on the
lower end cards because they can't push
the resolutions at the frame rates they
would
need to push them to have that size
frame buffer even matter the rtx 3060
may have
12 gigabytes of vram which is more than
360 ti however has a narrower bus
which means it's still not going to be
able to benefit 12 gigs of vram
not even 1440p sure maybe a few titles
might push it up to 10 or 11 gigabytes
but the 12 gigabytes honestly is nothing
more
than a marketing pitch to try and make
you think you're getting more for your
money
which you're not second of all the 3060
i'm gonna go ahead and give him video a
little bit of a support in this
area in that when it was announced amd
also announced their new
6000 series card or whatever that's
coming that's going to also be a
probably a 6700 or something like that
um it's going to have probably 16
gigabytes of vram and a lot of people
are just like
stunning all over both nvidia and amd
saying why the hell are you bringing out
new cards when you know they're not
going to be available anyway well if you
understand the manufacturing process
then you would know that these lower
tiered cards that shared the exact same
gpu
die number whether it be t104 or tu102
or tu-106
the lower end cards are made from the
leftovers of the higher end cards of
the the wafers and the silicon that
didn't meet the cut to be a higher
tiered
skew so what they do is they shave them
down even more they make these lower end
cards
so do i fault them for making it and
bringing it out during a world pandemic
right now
which has also led to the shorted the
biggest shortage of silicon that we've
ever seen in our history
no because they already have it so they
might as well at least
divvy that up amongst their aibs to come
out with these aftermarket cards which
is also probably why you're not seeing a
founder's edition card because of the
fact that
all of the silicon went to the aibs
so that's why i'm not faulting either of
these brands for actually bringing out
new gpus that you admittedly
are not going to be able to buy speaking
of buying them let's go ahead and talk
about what the experience was of
watching
the 9 a.m roll over happen when things
went live big surprise just like
everyone else best buy went right from
coming soon to out of stock
nvidia's own website when you say check
availability
just links you back to newegg which then
just has nothing but the newegg shuffle
which is where your name gets tossed in
a hat and you have to hope your name
gets picked
to be able to buy a card rather than
actually having a first come first serve
service no the guy who signs up last
could end up beating the guy who signed
up first because
of the shuffle which of all the
different ways you could go
about purchasing a graphics card i think
it's the stupidest one
out there unfortunately i also looked at
micro center
which is a in-store purchase only which
is where you're going to have the best
bet to actually buy one
granny to live close enough to one to go
wait in line two or three hours
ahead of the store opening in the
morning to hope that you end up getting
one of those cards
before they're sold out in terms of
stock check
at nine o'clock in the morning at tustin
the tustin california store
many of the sku said 20 plus available
some said 10 some said five however that
store doesn't open until 10 am which
hasn't happened yet so i don't know how
fast that number is going to go down
however if we look at the pricing it's a
little bit disturbing
because it's more obvious now than ever
that the aibs themselves well i'm mostly
all the aibs and
we do have an evga card here that was
sent to us by nvidia not evga
this is the only card that seems to be
coming in anywhere near msrp
this one is the evga xc so this is 389
msrp showing at both micro center and i
think
best buy had one in newegg or whatever
um it was the only one under 400 bucks
the other ones are showing in the 500
and the
629 dollar for the pny 3060.
absolutely ridiculous now here's the
problem if you go to nvidia's website
and you check availability on the sku
for 30 60s
rather than nvidia selling them through
their own store they're just linking
directly
back to newegg i wonder how much newegg
paid for that so that according to
nvidia the only place to buy it is new
egg but that's a whole nother problem to
talk about newegg then shows
those cards available under the newegg
shuffle
at the msrp 329 for all of those skus
however if you then go to micro center
best buy at the other rick rick and rick
and morty stores
brick and mortar stores you'll find that
those same manufacturers
and the same cards with slightly tiered
differences like you've got the ventus
card right you get the twin frozen card
or whatever they're calling it these
days from like msi
you'll find that they're 329 when linked
through nvidia but then over 500
when directly going to the brick and
mortar stores so
the question is now who's actually
scalping them
is it the aib or is it the store
i think there's probably a little bit of
guilt on both parties you probably have
the aibs i'm holding up the evga card
unfairly because again this is the only
card that seems to be coming in anywhere
near its msrp when you've got the stores
raising or the aibs raising
the msrp of their own card and then the
store raising it again because again
capitalism free market the thing is
worth whatever anyone's going to pay for
it in a shortage people will pay stupid
amounts for stupid products
that is what it is so yeah if i sound a
little salty about that i'm sharing in
your guys distaste i'm sharing your guys
frustration
when it comes to buying these cards and
i'm sorry i don't
actually give a flying freak about the
30 60. i very rarely care about the 30
60 cards but knowing the fact that the
the 60 series models now are deep in the
msrp price range and the realistic
retail price being almost 600
make these the worst buy of the year but
i still have to show you guys how some
of the performances what i'm going to do
is i'm going to just do some spot check
of the 3060 versus the
3060 ti because i want to see how close
it gets to it and i'm going to compare
it to the 2016 i mean i might in a
couple of things we have some numbers
for the 2060.
just to show what that uh price jump
to performance jump is i think we're
going to find
that the lowest effort card
is just a terrible value right now
[Music]
[Laughter]
um
[Music]
all right so i know i probably seem like
i'm being a little bit hard on the 30
60. i mean
there's no surprise it was coming
there's been a 60 series card for as
long as the nvidia cards have basically
been around
well ever since i ditched the four digit
moniker in terms of pricing and value
we have to speak in these in these
ridiculous hypotheticals because we know
the msrp is not what the cards are going
to cost
again the evga xc black
is basically their their closest to msrp
card and everywhere i've looked so far i
found this for 389
nvidia basically swore and promised that
there would be cards available at 329
but we already talked about the problem
with that when they link back to newegg
all of the uh the cards that had the
whole 329
price tag with them have the stupid
little
randomized purchasing option and then
one of them i think was the ventus
was sold out and then newegg had other
cards available
at exorbitant prices so it's kind of
like they
basically scratched in videos back by
agreeing to that because of course
nvidia is going to do what it can on its
store
which is just a redirect to control the
pricing but there's so many other
players in this in terms of the stores
um the
aib setting their own ridiculous pricing
that at 329
this would have been a really good card
especially when you compare it to the
charts that we just showed
versus the 2060 not the 2060 super but
the 2060. i don't know if there's gonna
be a 3060 super i doubt it
in fact one of the reasons why we
probably only uh
saw 3080s 3090s and 3070s and only a 360
ti
and not ti's of the other models is the
best analogy that
phil kind of put it as is they don't
have the inventory to do it themselves
he said
nvidia basically can print their own
money the problem is they've run out of
paper
and i think that makes the most sense
here at 329 dollars i think it would
have been a fantastic buy
the 12 gigabytes of vram is a is a
marketing gimmick it is not
necessary on this card 12 gigabytes of
vram with the memory bus that's
available on the 3080 would have made
more sense why they limited
the 30 80 to 11 gigs is still beyond me
and then the 30 90 jumping all the way
to 24 gigs we know is for workstation
loads but remember they also didn't
classify that as a true workstation card
because they still shaved a lot of the
floating point
uh performance out of it and the titan
rtx is still a better card for
various workflows uh depending on you
know
they continue to shave down their
workstation cards right and the 3090 is
just
really this true in between card making
it a really
ridiculously overpriced over v-rammed
gaming card and not a good enough true
workstation card those that are doing
like blender and stuff yeah
you're not going to be doing much mining
on this card
those that are in the know on the mining
when they talked about the specs were
basically saying this card would be a
terrible mining card it would not really
pay for itself especially at the
inflated pricing
30 60 pricing now being that of you know
what's funny
if you go and look at the prices of some
of these these these brick and mortar
stores
the price of the 360 is actually higher
than that of the 360 ti because you
can't buy a 360 ti but because you can
buy a 360 or at least could when we
started the video and can't now by the
time we got to this point because all
the micro center options that i showed
here where we had
in stock the second the store opened
it's basically
out of out of stock now best buy also
out of stock nvidia's link's out of
stock newegg out of stock where it was
in stock for those few moments the price
was already artificially inflated
to a ridiculous price so
what i'm basically trying to say here is
i don't really care
i'm so burnt out on graphics cards just
like you guys i've
justified so many times saying we review
the variance
of the cards that way when you guys can
find one you can at least say hey
i know which one i want to buy and if
it's worth it for the price that you're
able to find it for
we only have one 360 to look at i doubt
we're going to get any more to take a
look at especially after this video
and you know at the end of the day with
the scalping and when i say scalping i'm
referring to the aibs themselves because
so many of them truly are being their
own scalpers and we're caught at it and
then they come up with some stupid story
trying to defend themselves that your
boldface lies
to the point to where if you can find
one in stock you got to start asking
yourself now
is the 3060 worth what you would have
paid for a 1080 ti when it first
launched
pascal being quite honestly one of the
best periods for nvidia as far as i'm
concerned
ampier when we first saw it come out was
supposed to be
this saving grace for pc gamers more
performance
per dollar than we've ever seen i think
until pascal actually and then it
they beat pascal in that performance per
dollar which turned out to just come
be a complete farce i think that's a
word because of the fact that
it's just simply not available
the availability draws or it drills all
the way down to
just the fact that with everything being
computerized these days and
even the autumn did you know a lot of
automotive manufacturing here in the
united states and in detroit where
we technically are still manufacturing
some cars has halted
for many brands because of the fact that
the ecu's that are needed
to complete the assembly of these
vehicles are also unavailable
because they're all made in these same
factories that are creating these
socs and the wafers and the chips and
the the
raw materials that are needed to build
the parts for the cars
are also unavailable so not just gamers
and it's one of those things where right
now all manufacturing is being
prioritized to the automotive market so
that
you know it's considered much more
essential than gaming computers
it's gotten to the point to where
obviously when you drill down to a lot
of these sub markets
that's why the availability is as poor
as it is
so just like you guys i'm fatigued i'm
i'm really tired of talking about
stuff that i know you can't go out and
buy as a product reviewer i
still feel it's my job to talk about it
and show you the performance where we
can
and give you some information to arm
yourself with once you finally can go
and buy it to make an informed decision
but i'm not going to fill your inbox
with a bunch of 30-60 content it's
it's stupid to do that there's a lot of
videos out there that you can get
information from
and i recommend you go and watch those
videos if you're interested in learning
more about the card and less about my
opinion about why i'm just
not feeling it alright guys thanks for
watching sound off with your
uh comments about the 3060 and this
whole launch fiasco
and right now my gpu giveaway is
probably your best chance
at actually getting a graphics card
right now and i'll tell you about that
right here and by the way i know you
guys are probably sick about
seeing this at the end of our videos
it's only a few days left so if you've
been holding off
now's the time to sign up hey you before
you click off this video you may or may
not be aware i'm actually doing a
worldwide graphics card giveaway where
one winner will get to choose either a
6800 xt
merc 319 card from xfx or a 2080 ti msi
gaming x trio
from team nvidia so if you're sitting
there right now going i didn't know
about this how do i enter
follow the description down below you
guys will find a link to the giveaway
video that will give you all the details
don't wait because it really sucks to
find out about these after they're over